# Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence

### Terminology
Terminology on Google's course: <https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course/framing/ml-terminology>

- **Label:** the thing we are predicting, a variable, example: `the future price of wheat`. The `y-variable`
- **Feature:** it is an input variable. a simple model might use a single feature or millions of features. The `x-variable`
    - **Example** is a partical instance of data X: Two kinds:
        - A *labeled example* includes both the features and the label
        - An *unlabeled example* only includes the features and not the label
- A **Model:** is what defines the realtionship between features and the label.
**Training or Learning:** is when you show the model labeled example and enable the model to learn the relationships between features and models
- **Supervised Machine Learning:** a ML system that learns how to combine inputs to produce useful prediction on never seen before data. require labeled data to train.
- **Epoch:** when all the training data is used at once and is defined as the total normal of iterations of all the training data in on cycle for traing the machine learning model.
- **Unsupervised Machine Learning:** this learns patterns in unlabeled data.
- **Supervised Machine Learning:** imitates the way that humans gain knowledge, can be supervised, or unsupervised.
- **Inference:** applying the trained model to unlabeled examples.
- **Regression Models:** predict continuous values such as probability
- **Classification Models:** predict discrete values such as yes or no.
- **Clustering:** just means classifiying into similar groups.
    - **Deep Learning Clustering:** 
- **Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs):** a machine learning approach where there is a Supervised learning problem with two sub-models, a **generator model** trained to generate new examples, and a **discriminator model** that tries to classify the examples as either real (actual real data) or fake (generated by the other model).
    - The two models are trained together until the discriminator is fooled around half the time, meaning that the generator is making plausible examples

## Linear Regression
is a method for finding the straight line or hyperplane that best fits a set of points.

**Loss** is the difference between an actual datapoint and the predicted value from the model. When training a model, the model is trained to reduce loss at every single datapoint


## Google intro to Machine Learning Course

Google Course Intro: <https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course/>
>note: it uses TensorFlow

# Neural Networks
### Examples

[Building a Layer Two Neural Network From Scratch Using Python](https://betterprogramming.pub/how-to-build-2-layer-neural-network-from-scratch-in-python-4dd44a13ebba)


